Welcome to Thriller Recapped, Today, I will
show you An American thriller film called
Contagion, Spoilers Ahead, watch out and take
care.
This Movie is about a virus that spreads like
wildfire, and it infected many parts of the
world, and a group of people whose lives are
affected by it.
The movie starts with Day-2 written and we
see Beth Emhoff, she is at an airport in Chicago,
she gets a call from John, her ex-boyfriend,
they both had a hormone sandwich, and he says
it was a good sandwich.
In Hong Kong, we see a man who seems dizzy,
he then goes to home and he is sweating crazily.
In London, England, Same thing is happening
with a girl.
Few hours later, her family finds her dead
in their washroom.
In Minnesota, U.S, Beth comes back to their
family from her trip.
In Tokyo Japan, a man is seen having similar
symptoms.
The man in Hong Kong seems to be feeling dizzy
as he walks in an animal meat market, and
he cannot walk properly, and he gets hit by
a truck.
Day 3, In Atlanta, Georgia, at Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, we see Morpheus,
I mean Dr. Ellis helping a Janitor in finding
a good doctor for his son.
In San Francisco California, there are two
people watching news, in which people are
dying due to sudden sickness, A guy named
Alan, speculates that this sickness is due
to contaminated fish, and soon it will take
the entire planet, he tries to convince his
boss to write on this, but she is not buying
it and he leaves.
Later, we see Mitch Emhoff, husband of Beth,
he is there to pick up his son, who is coughing
and has a fever.
Day 4, Beth looks like she’s sick, suddenly
she feels dizzy, and she drops on the floor,
and she has seizure, their son watches all
this, Mitch takes her to hospital.
She gets seizure there again.
Later, the doctor comes to him and says that
her heart stopped working and she is dead,
Mitch cannot process this, and he says can
I talk to her now, Doctor tries to explain,
he says she only had a fever, doctor says
they don’t know the cause of death, and
they wish to do autopsy.
Soon, Mitch yells at him to do something.
Later, in car Mitch gets a call from their
babysitter, he gets to home and rushes to
room of his son, unfortunately he finds his
son dead.
Day 5, In Geneva Switzerland, we see Dr. Leonora,
going to the headquarters of W.H.O.
In China, a lady is found dead in a bus.
The virus has infected the highly populated
area in Kowloon Hong Kong, the health experts
talk about how it can spread like wildfire
if not contained properly withing few days.
They also have 5 people dead in London.
In Chicago, A man named Neo is taken to hospital,
doctors start doing autopsy of Beth, they
open her skull, then they stop, a doctor says
if he should call someone, the doctor says
call everyone.
Day 6, Dr. Ellis, and Dr. Erin Mears are trying
to track down every person who might be exposed
to the virus and they think it might be a
bioweapon.
Later, Erin goes to Minnesota from Atlanta
to get some samples and meet a team of experts.
In Minnesota, Mitch is quarantined in a closed
room doctors find him naturally immune, and
he talks to his daughter, Jory, on a phone,
he assures her that he is fine, and nothing
will happen to him.
He’s glad that his daughter wasn’t at
home to be exposed to it.
Erin meets Department of Homeland Security
representatives, Erin speculates this virus
might be spreading through fomites, a transmission
through surfaces like, elevator buttons, doorknobs,
and those things.
A representative says that people will freak
out if they release this news and she is against
releasing the information to people.
Then Erin tries to explain them by giving
examples of similar diseases, she says Flu
can transmit the disease to 1 person, Smallpox
multiplies it to 3 people, and Polio without
vaccine multiplies and infect 4 to 6 people,
but this new virus is way ahead of that transmission
rate, and she’s afraid sometimes healthy
people can transmit it without getting infected
as well.
In a CDC Lab, Ian and Ally are examining the
virus as they speak to each other that 60
people are dead and around 600 people are
infected.
She tries to understand it that it has characteristics
of a novel virus and appears to be primary
in origin and it mutates as well.
Alan tries to ask some questions like is it
a Bioweapon to the head of CDC, Dr. Ian.
Day 7, Dr. Ellis is stopped by Dennis from
Homeland Security, they want him to go with
him.
The group of Intelligence officers see the
pictures and they think there might be a connection
of it not being a natural virus.
They think it might be an attack, they are
closing down the schools by saying they’re
closing them for few days only.
Later, Erin goes to Beth’s workplace, and
she talk to them to see if anyone was also
exposed to the virus, none of them interacted
directly with Beth after she came back from
China, but they mention that one co-worker
Barnes picked her form the airport, she rushes
and she asks him to get off the bus immediately,
that he might be infected.
He seems to be coughing and he looks sick,
sooner, the crew of doctors arrives there.
Later, a doctor goes to Mitch to ask some
questions about Beth, the doctor reveals she
spent five hours in Chicago, and they want
to know if she met anyone when she left the
airport, Mitch seems to be shocked, and he
realizes she only knew one person in Chicago
which is her ex-boyfriend, John.
Later, a lab scientist explains to Dr. Ellis
that the virus infects humans, and the virus
has protein that is from a Bat and a Pig,
they’re confused, and she speculates that
this kind of hybrid virus might have been
developed in a Lab.
The virus has 20% mortality rate, and the
virus is mutating drastically.
Dr. Ellis orders that only their group will
work on it, since they don’t want the virus
to leak outside the lab.
Then Ally calls Ian, who is working on the
virus himself to find a cure to stop his research
immediately.
Day 8, Dr. Ellis makes a news conference and
announces the virus infecting people in California,
Illinois, and other states.
As of now the infected people worldwide are
89 thousand and expected to be 287,000 in
1 week.
They decide to send Dr. Leonora to Hong Kong,
so they can investigate the origin of the
virus, upon arrival, she is met by Sun Feng.
They track down the credit card statements
of Beth and go to a casino and make a list
of people she might have interacted with.
In the conference, they estimate the virus
to grow 2 times in 14 days, reporters ask
them if they found any cure, but they say
no.
In Hong Kong, they find traces of virus on
many surfaces.
Later, Ian is in a restaurant he says people
coughing, so goes against the order of Dr.
Ally and keeps working on it, fortunately
he grew the virus in a particular bat cell,
which is the first step of making a vaccine.
Dr. Ellis tracks it down from their system.
Day 12, the news spread everywhere that Dr.
Ian found a way that might lead in discovering
a vaccine.
As of Today, the virus has infected 8 million
people worldwide.
Alan the blogger is in a park with a guy from
pharmaceutical company, where Alan claims
that he knows what the cure is, and it is
Forsythia, and he wants 2 million for it.
Later, Dr. Erin tells Mitch that he is immune
to the virus, he asks then why they don’t
make vaccine from his blood cells, the doctors
say it can take very long that way.
Later, Dr. Erin goes with her co-worker to
convert stadium into an emergency care hospital.
Dr. Ellis calls Erin, they talk a bit and
Erin feels bad that they haven’t told Mitch
that his wife was cheating on him before she
died, he suggests her to take some rest.
The next day, Andrew, boyfriend of Jory, is
there to give some flowers but Mitch sends
him away and he suggests that they shouldn't
meet each other.
Later Leonora is watching the casino footage
again and Beth is seen enjoying her time,
she also sees her first interaction with the
casino chips.
Leonora speculates that virus was originated
from the casino not from Russia, but the Hong
Kong officials make fun of her that she can’t
see a virus through a footage.
Day 14, Erin wakes up coughing, sooner she
realizes that she has the virus, so she asks
the hotel staff to give her the list of everyone
who served room, since they might be infected
as well.
She then calls Dr. Ellis and unfortunately,
she tells him that she is infected too, he
assures her nothing will happen to her and
to Hang in there.
Later, Mitch meets a guy from funeral services
and Mitch wants to bury his wife and his son,
but the guy denies him by saying he can no
longer get their bodies.
Later, in casino tapes we see, Beth calling
John that she can take early flight so she
can meet him for 5 hours if he is ready to
spend some time, and then she takes cocktails
but forgets her phone so the Ukrainian lady
gives it to her, and they speculate she might
have infected her, or she might be infected
from her, after she leaves, we see a waiter
grabbing her glass, and the waiter is the
same guy who passed away earlier and had symptoms
in him.
Sooner, Sun Feng claims he read on the internet
that Americans and French Governments have
found the cure but they’re hiding it.
She then leaves and he makes a phone call.
The car stops suddenly and few people from
van come out and they abduct her, Sun feng
says this is the only way, then they take
her to an isolated village, he shows them
his villagers, and he says he is going to
use her as a leverage to get vaccines for
his people.
Later, Erin is coughing on a bed in the same
stadium she planned to use as emergency ward.
Later that night, Dr. Ellis tries to convince
the authorities to move her from there to
a better hospital room, but the homeland security
guy says its waste of resources.
We see Alan making a video and he claims that
he is infected, and he is taking Forsythia,
claiming again that it is the cure.
Dr. Ellis sees this video, he then calls his
wife and tells her that the government is
planning to quarantine the city and abandon
It from other cities to stop the spread of
virus, so he asks her to immediately leave
Chicago and drive by herself to Atlanta city
to his place and do not say it to anyone.
We see the janitor from earlier, he says he
got family in Chicago and leaves.
Later, wife of Ellis is picking up supplies,
and she gets a call from her friend, and she
spills the beans.
The military prepares to lockdown the city.
Day 18, after the viral blog of Alan, there
is a huge lineup outside Pharmacy to get Forsythia,
they inform that they will only distribute
50 doses and people start panicking and attacking
the facility.
Mitch and his daughter go to a convenient
store, but the city is in chaos and sick people
walking and coughing.
He then tries to go to another city but finds
out that the border is sealed so they move
back..
The next day, Alan is distributing flyers
that government is lying to people and Forsythia
is the cure.
He notices his boss sitting outside a house,
earlier we saw him convincing her that the
virus is a bioweapon, and she didn’t believe
him, she then asks him if he has any Forsythia
and she is pregnant and dying, she offers
him money, but he says he will bring it to
her when he gets it.
In the stadium, Erin sees a man shivering
from cold and they ran out of blankets, so
she tries to help him, but she is too weak,
and she dies.
Dr. Ellis goes to a news channel, the reporter
asks him what he thinks about Forsythia, he
suggests that the drugs are being evaluated
and the best thing people can do is wash their
hands and social distance.
Alan works for the same channel, he says that
the cure is being taken from the world by
C.D.C and W.H.O, to allow friends and family
of authorities to benefit financially from
it.
Ellis insists that they are working on with
pharmaceutical companies to find a vaccine,
and there is no science to backup Forsythia.
Alan claims that on Facebook wife of Ellis
posted that the city will be under full lockdown
few hours before the government announcing
it.
The homeland security officials are disappointed
about the leak of news, but they don’t have
anyone to replace him with.
Day 21, Ally discovers that the virus is mutating,
and the new strain is more deadly, and it
spreads 4 times more faster.
They’ve been testing on monkeys, but they
haven’t found any new achievement yet.
The mortality rate is 25 to 30% and without
the vaccine approximately 1 in 10 people will
contract the disease.
Alan comes across the picture of his boss,
she died due to the virus, and he walks away
from there.
Day 26, the military is distributing rations
and Mitch is there too, they announce they
ran out of supplies and people start attacking
and panicking and they take over military
truck.
Later that night, Mitch hears gun shots in
their neighbour’s house he decides to call
911 but the line is busy due to the chaos.
Day 29, Mitch decides to break into their
neighbour’s house, he goes to the garage
and takes a gun and comes back.
He sees that Jory is in the backyard with
Andrew, he gets up on her and leans for a
kiss, but Mitch comes there and throws him
away, and orders him to go home.
Back in CDC, Ally calls Ellis and updates
him on the status of vaccine that it still
needs many trials and monkeys keep dying,
Ellis suggests that when found they should
mix it in water supplies of the city so they
can cure everyone at once, she wishes him
merry Christmas and hangs up.
Later, she looks at a scared monkey and she
opens the box, and she decides to inject herself
with it.
She then goes to a hospital, and she meets
her father, she removes the masks, he doesn’t
want her to get infected, but she assures
him that she is just following her dad’s
path who found a vaccine to a disease and
tested it on himself.
Later, we see FDA approving it and producing
it in mass quantity, but the first dose will
take 90 days and it will take one year for
everyone in world to get it.
Day 131, We see a group of people broke into
house of Ellis and his wife is tied up, they’re
looking for the vaccine there since he works
for CDC.
Later, Ellis comes back to home, and he asks
her if they harmed her.
The next day, Alan is talking to the pharmaceutical
guy, and he claims that when Spanish flu came
millions of people got rich from it, and he
is doing the same, and he does not care if
Forsythia works or not.
He asks him if he did it on purpose, he says
he did it to get rich like the bigger companies.
He then notices a suspicious man and realizes
he’s been watched; they arrest him for security
fraud and for possible manslaughter.
Day 133, In a news conference, the Officer
from Homeland security announces that there
not enough vaccines available for everyone
yet, so they are having a lottery to distribute
it fairy, and they choose a date of birth,
March 10, and it will be distributed to people
born on that day, Jory and Mitch watches it
from their home and Jory thinks she might
be immune like her dad.
She then texts Andrew from Nostalgic iPhone.
In Hong Kong, is teaching the village kids
and she seems like she got adjusted to the
captivity.
Sun Fend informs her that the government has
agreed to give them 100 doses of vaccine in
exchange of her.
They take her to the site and meet a man from
the embassy.
They make the exchange and Leonora is free
now.
When they’re at the airport the man from
embassy reveals that they gave the villagers
poison instead of the real one and they can’t
afford to negotiate with kidnappers.
Leonora is in shock, and she runs from there
knowing that the children in village will
take it.
Later, we see a person scanning the barcode
on Mitch’s hand as a new rule to see who
is immune and vaccinated.
Later, an officer tells Alan that his blood
result shows that he was never infected, which
means he faked being sick and pushed everyone
to take Forsythia, which made him over 4.5
million dollars and that now people don’t
trust on government, one of his followers
bails him out.
Later we see that finally, Dr. Ellis is given
two doses one for his wife and one for him,
but he gracefully gives it to the son the
Janitor that works with him.
Later that night, he gives another shot to
his wife, and gives her that bracelet.
Day 135, Alan resumed is daily activities
to spread conspiracy theories.
In the lab, Dr. Ally puts the virus in a box
in liquid nitrogen storage with other deadly
viruses as a part of history now and they
leave.
Mitch turns on the camera of Beth that he
found and looks at the pictures she took there,
Jory is dressed for prom and her father lets
her meet Andrew that he is vaccinated now,
in the room Mitch breaks down.
Then the movies goes back to Day 1, where
it is shown that in a pig farm, a but dropped
its poo and one of the pig ate it, and got
infected, then that pig was touched by a chef
and Beth wanted to take picture with him,
and it infected her from there.
And the movie Ends, let me know in the comments
what do you think about the movie and please
like & subscribe it really helps the channel.